In this chapter we're going to, work
exercises using the three major data
structures of Python, lists, to pules, and
dictionaries.
In this first exercise we're going to work
with lists
and write a couple of functions to perform
tasks with lists.
Primarily just to demonstrate how easy it
is to add your own
functionality to the functionality that's
built in to the Python data structures.
So we're gonna call this program
takedrop.py because those are
the two functions we're going to write
take and drop.
So let me start off with a list.
Were're going to start, a basic list of a
couple of names, actually five names.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Now, let's move the list down.
We want to put our functions above.
The first function we wanna write is take.
Take will take a specified number of items
consecutively.
From a list, and create a new list from
that list.
So the first thing we do is, we create an
empty list.
We'll call it rlist for returned list.
Then we're going to write a for loop.
It starts at zero, it goes through the
number specified as the first argument to
the function.
And we append that data to the list.
Then when we're finished, we return the
list.
So let's give it a try.
So I'll write, some names equals take and
then three names.
That will take the first three names out
of names.
And put it in the list some names, and
then we'll print some names.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So take drop.py and some names consists
of Raymond, Cynthia and David.
Now, we are going to write the drop
function.
It has the same parameters, a number and a
list
and it's going to drop the number of items
from the list, starting at the beginning.
So, if we say, drop 3.
From names that it's going to drop the
first three names.
So the first thing we do is create an
empty list to return.
Then we write a for loop that starts at
the
number specified and continues through the
length of the list.
Essentially building a list starting at
the item past the number we wanna drop.
So in other words if we say drop three
names then the
new list is built starting at the fourth
name, in this example, Jennifer.
So if you'll notice the two functions
are very similar yet they perform
different tasks.
So, we wanna drop three from names and
store that back into names.
And then we'll print names.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Our first function takes three from names
and stores it
in the list some names, Raymond, Cynthia,
David.
And our second function drop, drops those
three names.
And names is left with just Jennifer and
Clayton.
Here
are the functions.
And I'll leave as an exercise for you
modifying these functions,
so that if you typed, for example, take
minus three names.
It would take the last three names from
the list and the same thing with drop.
Drop three names would drop the last three
names of the list.
And given what I've shown you in this
exercise you should be able
to write that modification for both the
take function and the drop function.
But for now we're going to leave this
exercise and move
to the next exercise where we're going to
work with topules